README.md, before:


# seqR - fast and comprehensive k-mer counting package

<!-- badges: start -->

[![CRAN\_Status\_Badge](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/seqR)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=seqR)
[![R build
status](https://github.com/slowikj/seqR/workflows/R-CMD-check/badge.svg)](https://github.com/slowikj/seqR/actions)
[![Lifecycle:
stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-stable-brightgreen.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#stable)
[![License: GPL
v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
[![codecov.io](https://codecov.io/github/slowikj/seqR/coverage.svg?branch=master)](https://codecov.io/github/slowikj/seqR?branch=master)
[![Code Quality
Status](https://www.code-inspector.com/project/23909/status/svg)](https://www.code-inspector.com/project/23909/status/svg)
[![Code Quality
Score](https://www.code-inspector.com/project/23909/score/svg)](https://www.code-inspector.com/project/23909/score/svg)
<!-- badges: end -->

## About

`seqR` is an R package for fast k-mer counting. It provides

-   **highly optimized** (the core algorithm is written in C++)
-   **in-memory**
-   **probabilistic** (with configurable dimensionality of a hash value
    used for storing k-mers internally),
-   **multi-threaded**

implementation that supports

-   **various variants of k-mers** (contiguous, gapped, and positional
    counterparts)
-   **all biological sequences** (e.g., nucleic acids and proteins)

Moreover, the result optimizes memory consumption by the application of
**sparse matrices** (see [package
Matrix](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=Matrix)), compatible with
machine learning packages such as
[ranger](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=ranger) and
[xgboost](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=xgboost).

## How to…

### How to install

It is possible to download the development version directly from GitHub
repository:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("slowikj/seqR")
```

### How to use

The package provides two functions that facilitate k-mer counting

-   `count_kmers` (used for counting k-mers of one type)
-   `count_multimers` (a wrapper of `count_kmers`, used for counting
    k-mers of many types in a single invocation of the function)

and one function used for custom processing of k-mer matrices:

-   `rbind_columnwise` (a helper function used for merging several k-mer
    matrices that do not have same sets of columns)

To learn more, see [features overview
vignette](https://slowikj.github.io/seqR/articles/features-overview.html)
and [reference](https://slowikj.github.io/seqR/reference/index.html).

#### Examples

##### counting 5-mers

``` r
count_kmers(sequences=c("AAAAAVVAVFF", "DFGSADFGSA"),
            k=5)
#> 2 x 12 sparse Matrix of class "dgCMatrix"
#>    [[ suppressing 12 column names 'A.A.A.A.A_0.0.0.0', 'A.V.V.A.V_0.0.0.0', 'V.V.A.V.F_0.0.0.0' ... ]]
#>                             
#> [1,] 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 . . . . .
#> [2,] . . . . . . . 1 1 1 2 1
```

##### counting gapped 5-mers with gaps (0, 1, 0, 2) (XX\_XX\_\_X)

``` r
count_kmers(sequences=c("AAAAAVVAVFF", "DFGSADFGSA"),
            kmer_gaps=c(0, 1, 0, 2))
#> 2 x 7 sparse Matrix of class "dgCMatrix"
#>      A.A.A.A.A_0.1.0.2 A.A.V.V.F_0.1.0.2 A.A.V.A.F_0.1.0.2 A.A.A.V.V_0.1.0.2
#> [1,]                 1                 1                 1                 1
#> [2,]                 .                 .                 .                 .
#>      G.S.D.F.A_0.1.0.2 F.G.A.D.S_0.1.0.2 D.F.S.A.G_0.1.0.2
#> [1,]                 .                 .                 .
#> [2,]                 1                 1                 1
```

##### counting 1-mers and 2-mers

``` r
data(CsgA)

CsgA[1L:2]
#> $`sp|P28307|CSGA_ECOLI Major curlin subunit OS=Escherichia coli (strain K12) OX=83333 GN=csgA PE=1 SV=3`
#>   [1] "M" "K" "L" "L" "K" "V" "A" "A" "I" "A" "A" "I" "V" "F" "S" "G" "S" "A"
#>  [19] "L" "A" "G" "V" "V" "P" "Q" "Y" "G" "G" "G" "G" "N" "H" "G" "G" "G" "G"
#>  [37] "N" "N" "S" "G" "P" "N" "S" "E" "L" "N" "I" "Y" "Q" "Y" "G" "G" "G" "N"
#>  [55] "S" "A" "L" "A" "L" "Q" "T" "D" "A" "R" "N" "S" "D" "L" "T" "I" "T" "Q"
#>  [73] "H" "G" "G" "G" "N" "G" "A" "D" "V" "G" "Q" "G" "S" "D" "D" "S" "S" "I"
#>  [91] "D" "L" "T" "Q" "R" "G" "F" "G" "N" "S" "A" "T" "L" "D" "Q" "W" "N" "G"
#> [109] "K" "N" "S" "E" "M" "T" "V" "K" "Q" "F" "G" "G" "G" "N" "G" "A" "A" "V"
#> [127] "D" "Q" "T" "A" "S" "N" "S" "S" "V" "N" "V" "T" "Q" "V" "G" "F" "G" "N"
#> [145] "N" "A" "T" "A" "H" "Q" "Y"
#> 
#> $`sp|P0A1E7|CSGA_SALEN Major curlin subunit OS=Salmonella enteritidis OX=149539 GN=csgA PE=1 SV=1`
#>   [1] "M" "K" "L" "L" "K" "V" "A" "A" "F" "A" "A" "I" "V" "V" "S" "G" "S" "A"
#>  [19] "L" "A" "G" "V" "V" "P" "Q" "W" "G" "G" "G" "G" "N" "H" "N" "G" "G" "G"
#>  [37] "N" "S" "S" "G" "P" "D" "S" "T" "L" "S" "I" "Y" "Q" "Y" "G" "S" "A" "N"
#>  [55] "A" "A" "L" "A" "L" "Q" "S" "D" "A" "R" "K" "S" "E" "T" "T" "I" "T" "Q"
#>  [73] "S" "G" "Y" "G" "N" "G" "A" "D" "V" "G" "Q" "G" "A" "D" "N" "S" "T" "I"
#>  [91] "E" "L" "T" "Q" "N" "G" "F" "R" "N" "N" "A" "T" "I" "D" "Q" "W" "N" "A"
#> [109] "K" "N" "S" "D" "I" "T" "V" "G" "Q" "Y" "G" "G" "N" "N" "A" "A" "L" "V"
#> [127] "N" "Q" "T" "A" "S" "D" "S" "S" "V" "M" "V" "R" "Q" "V" "G" "F" "G" "N"
#> [145] "N" "A" "T" "A" "N" "Q" "Y"

count_multimers(sequences=CsgA,
                k_vector = c(1, 2))
#> 5 x 144 sparse Matrix of class "dgCMatrix"
#>    [[ suppressing 144 column names 'R', 'L', 'Y' ... ]]
#>                                                                                
#> [1,] 2 9 4 1 8 5 10 2 2 4 16 29 4 11  9 2 16 3 14 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 3 1 2
#> [2,] 3 8 5 2 7 6 11 2 2 4 17 22 3 11 10 2 20 1 15 1 3 1 . . 3 1 1 1 2 5 2 3 . 2
#> [3,] 3 8 5 2 7 6 11 2 2 4 17 22 3 11 10 2 20 1 15 1 3 1 . . 3 1 1 1 2 5 2 3 . 2
#> [4,] 2 9 4 1 9 5 10 2 1 4 15 30 4 11  9 2 17 4 13 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 3 1 2
#> [5,] 3 8 5 2 7 6 11 2 2 4 17 22 3 11 10 2 20 1 15 1 3 1 . . 3 1 1 1 2 5 2 3 . 2
#>                                                                                
#> [1,] 1 3 1 3 1 2 7 1 1 1 1 3 1 1 2 2 1 1 12 3 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 2 2
#> [2,] . 2 . 2 1 2 3 . 1 2 . 3 1 . 3 2 2 1  6 4 2 3 1 2 1 . 1 . 1 1 . 1 . 1 1 2 .
#> [3,] . 2 . 2 1 2 3 . 1 2 . 3 1 . 3 2 2 1  6 4 2 3 1 2 1 . 1 . 1 1 . 1 . 1 1 2 .
#> [4,] 1 3 1 3 1 2 6 1 1 2 1 3 2 1 2 2 1 . 13 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2
#> [5,] . 2 . 2 1 2 3 . 1 2 . 3 1 . 3 2 2 1  6 4 2 3 1 2 1 . 1 . 1 1 . 1 . 1 1 2 .
#>                                                                               
#> [1,] 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 7 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 3 1
#> [2,] . 1 . 1 1 1 1 5 . . 2 . . 1 1 1 . . . 1 1 2 1 4 1 1 1 1 . 1 . 2 3 1 1 1 .
#> [3,] . 1 . 1 1 1 1 5 . . 2 . . 1 1 1 . . . 1 1 2 1 4 1 1 1 1 . 1 . 2 3 1 1 1 .
#> [4,] 1 1 . 1 1 1 1 7 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 . 1 1 1 1 2 2 3 1 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 3 1
#> [5,] . 1 . 1 1 1 1 5 . . 2 . . 1 1 1 . . . 1 1 2 1 4 1 1 1 1 . 1 . 2 3 1 1 1 .
#>                                                                             
#> [1,] 1 1 2 1 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#> [2,] . 1 . 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 . . . .
#> [3,] . 1 . 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 . . . .
#> [4,] 1 1 2 1 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 1 1
#> [5,] . 1 . 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 . . . .
```

### How to cite

For citation type:

``` r
citation("seqR")
```

or use:

Jadwiga Słowik and Michał Burdukiewicz (2021). seqR: fast and
comprehensive k-mer counting package. R package version 1.0.0.

## Benchmarks

The `seqR` package has been compared with other existing k-mer counting
R packages: [biogram](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=biogram),
[kmer](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=kmer),
[seqinr](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=seqinr), and
[biostrings](https://bioconductor.org/packages/Biostrings).

All benchmark experiments have been performed using Intel Core i7-6700HQ
2.60GHz 8 cores, using the
[microbenchmark](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=microbenchmark) R
package.

### Contiguous k-mers

#### Changing k

<img src = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slowikj/seqR/master/man/img/packages_different_k.png" align = "center" width="100%"/>

The input consists of one `DNA` sequence of length `3 000`.

#### Changing the number of sequences

<img src = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slowikj/seqR/master/man/img/packages_different_seq_num.png" align = "center" width="100%"/>

Each `DNA` sequence has `3 000` elements, `contiguous 5-mer` counting.

### Gapped k-mers

#### Changing the first contiguous part of a k-mer

<img src = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slowikj/seqR/master/man/img/gapped_kmers_changing_the_first_contiguous_part.png" align = "center" width="100%"/>

The input consists of one `DNA` sequence of length `1 000 000`.
`Gapped 5-mers` counting with base gaps `(1, 0, 0, 1)`.

#### Changing the first gap size

<img src = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slowikj/seqR/master/man/img/gapped_kmers_changing_the_first_gap.png" align = "center" width="100%"/>

The input consists of one `DNA` sequence of length `100 000`.
`Gapped 5-mers` counting with base gaps `(1, 0, 0, 1)`.

Commit message:

Add message if batch_size = 1

README.md, after:


# seqR - fast and comprehensive k-mer counting package

<!-- badges: start -->

[![CRAN\_Status\_Badge](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/seqR)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=seqR)
[![R build
status](https://github.com/slowikj/seqR/workflows/R-CMD-check/badge.svg)](https://github.com/slowikj/seqR/actions)
[![Lifecycle:
stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-stable-brightgreen.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#stable)
[![License: GPL
v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
[![codecov.io](https://codecov.io/github/slowikj/seqR/coverage.svg?branch=master)](https://codecov.io/github/slowikj/seqR?branch=master)
[![Code Quality
Status](https://www.code-inspector.com/project/23909/status/svg)](https://www.code-inspector.com/project/23909/status/svg)
[![Code Quality
Score](https://www.code-inspector.com/project/23909/score/svg)](https://www.code-inspector.com/project/23909/score/svg)
<!-- badges: end -->

## About

`seqR` is an R package for fast k-mer counting. It provides

-   **highly optimized** (the core algorithm is written in C++)
-   **in-memory**
-   **probabilistic** (with configurable dimensionality of a hash value
    used for storing k-mers internally),
-   **multi-threaded** (with a configurable size of the batch of
    sequences (`batch_size`) to process in a single step. If
    `batch_size` equals 1, the multi-threaded mode is disabled, which
    potentially causes a longer computation time)

implementation that supports

-   **various variants of k-mers** (contiguous, gapped, and positional
    counterparts)
-   **all biological sequences** (e.g., nucleic acids and proteins)

Moreover, the result optimizes memory consumption by the application of
**sparse matrices** (see [package
Matrix](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=Matrix)), compatible with
machine learning packages such as
[ranger](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=ranger) and
[xgboost](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=xgboost).

## How to…

### How to install

It is possible to download the development version directly from GitHub
repository:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("slowikj/seqR")
```

### How to use

The package provides two functions that facilitate k-mer counting

-   `count_kmers` (used for counting k-mers of one type)
-   `count_multimers` (a wrapper of `count_kmers`, used for counting
    k-mers of many types in a single invocation of the function)

and one function used for custom processing of k-mer matrices:

-   `rbind_columnwise` (a helper function used for merging several k-mer
    matrices that do not have same sets of columns)

To learn more, see [features overview
vignette](https://slowikj.github.io/seqR/articles/features-overview.html)
and [reference](https://slowikj.github.io/seqR/reference/index.html).

#### Examples

##### counting 5-mers

``` r
count_kmers(sequences=c("AAAAAVVAVFF", "DFGSADFGSA"),
            k=5)
#> 2 x 12 sparse Matrix of class "dgCMatrix"
#>    [[ suppressing 12 column names 'A.A.A.A.A_0.0.0.0', 'A.V.V.A.V_0.0.0.0', 'V.V.A.V.F_0.0.0.0' ... ]]
#>                             
#> [1,] 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 . . . . .
#> [2,] . . . . . . . 1 1 1 2 1
```

##### counting gapped 5-mers with gaps (0, 1, 0, 2) (XX\_XX\_\_X)

``` r
count_kmers(sequences=c("AAAAAVVAVFF", "DFGSADFGSA"),
            kmer_gaps=c(0, 1, 0, 2))
#> 2 x 7 sparse Matrix of class "dgCMatrix"
#>      A.A.A.A.A_0.1.0.2 A.A.V.V.F_0.1.0.2 A.A.V.A.F_0.1.0.2 A.A.A.V.V_0.1.0.2
#> [1,]                 1                 1                 1                 1
#> [2,]                 .                 .                 .                 .
#>      G.S.D.F.A_0.1.0.2 F.G.A.D.S_0.1.0.2 D.F.S.A.G_0.1.0.2
#> [1,]                 .                 .                 .
#> [2,]                 1                 1                 1
```

##### counting 1-mers and 2-mers

``` r
data(CsgA)

CsgA[1L:2]
#> $`sp|P28307|CSGA_ECOLI Major curlin subunit OS=Escherichia coli (strain K12) OX=83333 GN=csgA PE=1 SV=3`
#>   [1] "M" "K" "L" "L" "K" "V" "A" "A" "I" "A" "A" "I" "V" "F" "S" "G" "S" "A"
#>  [19] "L" "A" "G" "V" "V" "P" "Q" "Y" "G" "G" "G" "G" "N" "H" "G" "G" "G" "G"
#>  [37] "N" "N" "S" "G" "P" "N" "S" "E" "L" "N" "I" "Y" "Q" "Y" "G" "G" "G" "N"
#>  [55] "S" "A" "L" "A" "L" "Q" "T" "D" "A" "R" "N" "S" "D" "L" "T" "I" "T" "Q"
#>  [73] "H" "G" "G" "G" "N" "G" "A" "D" "V" "G" "Q" "G" "S" "D" "D" "S" "S" "I"
#>  [91] "D" "L" "T" "Q" "R" "G" "F" "G" "N" "S" "A" "T" "L" "D" "Q" "W" "N" "G"
#> [109] "K" "N" "S" "E" "M" "T" "V" "K" "Q" "F" "G" "G" "G" "N" "G" "A" "A" "V"
#> [127] "D" "Q" "T" "A" "S" "N" "S" "S" "V" "N" "V" "T" "Q" "V" "G" "F" "G" "N"
#> [145] "N" "A" "T" "A" "H" "Q" "Y"
#> 
#> $`sp|P0A1E7|CSGA_SALEN Major curlin subunit OS=Salmonella enteritidis OX=149539 GN=csgA PE=1 SV=1`
#>   [1] "M" "K" "L" "L" "K" "V" "A" "A" "F" "A" "A" "I" "V" "V" "S" "G" "S" "A"
#>  [19] "L" "A" "G" "V" "V" "P" "Q" "W" "G" "G" "G" "G" "N" "H" "N" "G" "G" "G"
#>  [37] "N" "S" "S" "G" "P" "D" "S" "T" "L" "S" "I" "Y" "Q" "Y" "G" "S" "A" "N"
#>  [55] "A" "A" "L" "A" "L" "Q" "S" "D" "A" "R" "K" "S" "E" "T" "T" "I" "T" "Q"
#>  [73] "S" "G" "Y" "G" "N" "G" "A" "D" "V" "G" "Q" "G" "A" "D" "N" "S" "T" "I"
#>  [91] "E" "L" "T" "Q" "N" "G" "F" "R" "N" "N" "A" "T" "I" "D" "Q" "W" "N" "A"
#> [109] "K" "N" "S" "D" "I" "T" "V" "G" "Q" "Y" "G" "G" "N" "N" "A" "A" "L" "V"
#> [127] "N" "Q" "T" "A" "S" "D" "S" "S" "V" "M" "V" "R" "Q" "V" "G" "F" "G" "N"
#> [145] "N" "A" "T" "A" "N" "Q" "Y"

count_multimers(sequences=CsgA,
                k_vector = c(1, 2))
#> 5 x 144 sparse Matrix of class "dgCMatrix"
#>    [[ suppressing 144 column names 'R', 'L', 'Y' ... ]]
#>                                                                                
#> [1,] 2 9 4 1 8 5 10 2 2 4 16 29 4 11  9 2 16 3 14 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 3 1 2
#> [2,] 3 8 5 2 7 6 11 2 2 4 17 22 3 11 10 2 20 1 15 1 3 1 . . 3 1 1 1 2 5 2 3 . 2
#> [3,] 3 8 5 2 7 6 11 2 2 4 17 22 3 11 10 2 20 1 15 1 3 1 . . 3 1 1 1 2 5 2 3 . 2
#> [4,] 2 9 4 1 9 5 10 2 1 4 15 30 4 11  9 2 17 4 13 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 3 1 2
#> [5,] 3 8 5 2 7 6 11 2 2 4 17 22 3 11 10 2 20 1 15 1 3 1 . . 3 1 1 1 2 5 2 3 . 2
#>                                                                                
#> [1,] 1 3 1 3 1 2 7 1 1 1 1 3 1 1 2 2 1 1 12 3 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 2 2
#> [2,] . 2 . 2 1 2 3 . 1 2 . 3 1 . 3 2 2 1  6 4 2 3 1 2 1 . 1 . 1 1 . 1 . 1 1 2 .
#> [3,] . 2 . 2 1 2 3 . 1 2 . 3 1 . 3 2 2 1  6 4 2 3 1 2 1 . 1 . 1 1 . 1 . 1 1 2 .
#> [4,] 1 3 1 3 1 2 6 1 1 2 1 3 2 1 2 2 1 . 13 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2
#> [5,] . 2 . 2 1 2 3 . 1 2 . 3 1 . 3 2 2 1  6 4 2 3 1 2 1 . 1 . 1 1 . 1 . 1 1 2 .
#>                                                                               
#> [1,] 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 7 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 3 1
#> [2,] . 1 . 1 1 1 1 5 . . 2 . . 1 1 1 . . . 1 1 2 1 4 1 1 1 1 . 1 . 2 3 1 1 1 .
#> [3,] . 1 . 1 1 1 1 5 . . 2 . . 1 1 1 . . . 1 1 2 1 4 1 1 1 1 . 1 . 2 3 1 1 1 .
#> [4,] 1 1 . 1 1 1 1 7 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 . 1 1 1 1 2 2 3 1 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 3 1
#> [5,] . 1 . 1 1 1 1 5 . . 2 . . 1 1 1 . . . 1 1 2 1 4 1 1 1 1 . 1 . 2 3 1 1 1 .
#>                                                                             
#> [1,] 1 1 2 1 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#> [2,] . 1 . 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 . . . .
#> [3,] . 1 . 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 . . . .
#> [4,] 1 1 2 1 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 1 1
#> [5,] . 1 . 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 . . . .
```

### How to cite

For citation type:

``` r
citation("seqR")
```

or use:

Jadwiga Słowik and Michał Burdukiewicz (2021). seqR: fast and
comprehensive k-mer counting package. R package version 1.0.0.

## Benchmarks

The `seqR` package has been compared with other existing k-mer counting
R packages: [biogram](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=biogram),
[kmer](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=kmer),
[seqinr](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=seqinr), and
[biostrings](https://bioconductor.org/packages/Biostrings).

All benchmark experiments have been performed using Intel Core i7-6700HQ
2.60GHz 8 cores, using the
[microbenchmark](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=microbenchmark) R
package.

### Contiguous k-mers

#### Changing k

<img src = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slowikj/seqR/master/man/img/packages_different_k.png" align = "center" width="100%"/>

The input consists of one `DNA` sequence of length `3 000`.

#### Changing the number of sequences

<img src = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slowikj/seqR/master/man/img/packages_different_seq_num.png" align = "center" width="100%"/>

Each `DNA` sequence has `3 000` elements, `contiguous 5-mer` counting.

### Gapped k-mers

#### Changing the first contiguous part of a k-mer

<img src = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slowikj/seqR/master/man/img/gapped_kmers_changing_the_first_contiguous_part.png" align = "center" width="100%"/>

The input consists of one `DNA` sequence of length `1 000 000`.
`Gapped 5-mers` counting with base gaps `(1, 0, 0, 1)`.

#### Changing the first gap size

<img src = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slowikj/seqR/master/man/img/gapped_kmers_changing_the_first_gap.png" align = "center" width="100%"/>

The input consists of one `DNA` sequence of length `100 000`.
`Gapped 5-mers` counting with base gaps `(1, 0, 0, 1)`.
